# T.U.N.E.S
### Turn Up! Never Ending Songs
T.U.N.E.S (pictured below) is a Seeburg LPC-1 Jukebox. Initially created in 1963 this is one of, if not the first digitally operated selection machine created. Below I'll be writing down each large group of electronics, my understanding of the system, and what I've done attempting to repair it. They are organized in the order I attempted to fix them. The information describing them may be wildly incorrect, I continually learn more the more I work on it this is just my working understanding of the system and subsystems accordingly.
## TorMat Memory Unit
My entire understanding of the TorMat Memory Unit derives from this link: https://www.flippers.com/Seeburg-tormat.html
The memory unit thankfully was fully intact upon purchasing the Jukebox. The selection system is one of the most important propriety items of Seeburg so would need replacement or extreme skill to fix. The only thing I had to do to get it to detect pins was shifting the read-out switch to properly contact the toroids with its pins. This discovery was thanks to the trick I learned to reset the memory and select every pin in order. Placing a 1.5-volt battery over a specific wire as shown below causes the exact phenomenon described.
## Selection Mechanism
The selection mechanism describes the entire central motor that is pushed back and forth on which the record is played. The piece seems to be driven with a single large motor. When a position is selected and found a lever arm is lifted up carrying the record towards another motor and flywheel. The motor begins the spin the record and the needle is lowered onto the record. Some interesting magic seems to happen in the auto speed unit at this point that I don't fully understand. The amp turns on and the record plays until completion. The record grounds the pin at which point the record is ejected and the motor pauses waiting for the next selection to be placed. I initially started with maintenance to get it to more consistently pick up and lower the records more consistently. This piece worked remarkably well to start with after a little bit of manual troubleshooting I felt comfortable moving forward to diagnosing the selections problems.
## Tormat Control System
From what I've read and observed this is the primary connection point of all the subsystems. It acts less like the brain and more like the spinal cord of the machine allowing individual parts to function together, but think separately. This piece seems intact and all the contact points were correct when I probed test sockets, so I immediately jumped to the Album pricing unit for further steps.
## Album Pricing Unit
This is where things get more complex than imagined. The album pricing unit runs in conjunction and disjunction with the Income totalizer (discussed later). A coin is dropped into the machine where the income totalizer detects its type and sends the signal to the Album Pricing Unit. Beneath the actual pricing unit is 3 solenoids that are individually controlled by the coin value-added. The solenoids contract accordingly, and control stoppers are next to a motorized wheel that turns until the stopper is reached, this adds the number of credits that can be used to play records. The album pricing unit also subtracts credits when a record is selected to be played. This took me about 3 months time to both figure out how it worked, tweak and consider advancing to the next point. I played with contact gaps, and the coin solenoids and worked getting the credit wheel to turn appropriately to no avail. Having exhausted many options I turned to the last piece of the puzzle the income totalizer.
## Income Totalizer
This piece is a monstrosity of wires and to me borderline incomprehensible. It is likely the least well-designed tech in the entire machine. Firstly, it was tightly guarded by a lock that wasn't even the same as the rest of the cabinet. What is so important in there that's being guarded by a key much less not even the same one that opens the cabinet? The inside is a mess of wires that seem well connected. I was hoping to crack it open and find a loose wire or two and have found the solution. This piece also seems to be in fantastic condition. This left me with two options continue the long tedious refurbishment attempt to get it working and fully understand it or get hacking.
## The Hack
I have decided that hacking the machine will provide the same care for history as well as serve the needs of a networked jukebox more efficiently and proactively. The plan is to access the Central Mechanism directly, driving it back and forth until it reaches a predefined coordinate to pick up the record. Currently, I've found the pin associated with edge detection and am rapidly finding where the signal for a detected record is sent. Once completed the system will be hooked to a Raspberry Pi with all the internal logic to control the machine to CSH's liking.
## Oopsies
(Take these with a grain of salt. I'm known for hyperbole and tall tales at times)
Boy, have I had many. Between tight spaces where you can nic your hand and running electricity, I've got a few stories. To begin with, don't touch anything while the machine is running. While this seems obvious, I mean ANYTHING. The center mechanism eve has electricity running through it, learned from my hand being buzzed while adjusting a lever inside it. This leads well into the next story. Another reason not to poke around while running is the WILDLY different voltages present in the machine. There are some parts running 6 volts to others running 300 volts. I learned this the hard way while poking around the central mechanism with a screwdriver. I accidentally caught 2 contact points and the center metal causing them to ground out. The short was so powerful and violent that it blew the main fuse of the phonograph. This is also a maybe oopsie, but after restoring the jukebox with the new fuse and getting the center mechanism running. Almost immediately after testing a tweak, a large brown-out occurred in my dorm building. Specifically the side I was working on. Whether or not I'm the cause of a 3-day blackout at RIT is still TBD.

## Links That Have Helped Me
[Seeburg Tormat Theory](https://www.flippers.com/Seeburg-tormat.html)
[Seeburg, LPC1 Jukebox | Peak Pinball](https://peakpinball.com/2015/11/01/seeburg-lpc1-jukebox/)
[symptom 3](http://www.west.net/~jay/fmillera/fmillera/symptom_3.htm)
This completes my explanation and documentation of the project there are still minor details and subsystems not listed. As this project grows, so too will this readme. Hopefully, I can have a working Jukebox soon, wish me luck.
 